feat: Release `1.0.0-pre.9` (#3579)
CloudFire-LLC/cloudfire: website/src/app/kb/authenticate/okta/readme.mdx

import Alert from "@/components/DocsAlert";
import PlanBadge from "@/components/PlanBadge";
import Image from "next/image";
import Link from "next/link";

<PlanBadge plans={["enterprise"]}>

# SSO with Okta

</PlanBadge>

Firezone integrates with Okta using a custom connector that supports both
authentication and directory sync. Use this guide if you're looking to setup SSO
with Okta for your Firezone Enterprise account and want to automatically sync
users and groups from Okta to Firezone.

<Alert color="info">
  If you're just looking to authenticate users against Okta **without**
  automatic directory sync, use our [universal OIDC
  connector](/kb/authenticate/oidc) instead, available on all plans.
</Alert>

## Overview

The Firezone Okta connector integrates with Okta's APIs to support user
authentication and directory sync.

> Users, groups, and organizational units are synced every few minutes to ensure

Reviewer: Was this copied from the Google Workspace page?  I don't think Okta has organizational units does it?

that your Firezone account remains up-to-date with the latest identity data from
Okta. [Read more](/kb/authenticate/directory-sync) about how sync works.

## Setup

Setting up the Okta connector is similar to the process of setting up a
universal OIDC connector. The main difference is the addition of a few extra

> read-only scopes needed to enable sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
read-only scopes needed to enable directory sync.
```

  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/1-dashboard.png"
    alt="Dashboard"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Click **Create App Integration**.

<Link href="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/2-applications.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/2-applications.png"
    alt="Applications"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Select **OIDC - OpenID Connect** as the application type.

<Link href="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/3-OIDC-app.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/3-OIDC-app.png"
    alt="OIDC app"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Select **Web Application** as the application type and click **Next**.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/4-application-type.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/4-application-type.png"
    alt="Application type"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Fill in the **App integration name** field with `Firezone Connector`.

[Download the Firezone logo](/images/kb/authenticate/okta/firezone-logo.png) to
use for the app integration and upload it to Okta (optional).

> Ensure the **Refresh Token** grant type is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure both the **Authorization Code** and **Refresh Token** grant types are selected.
```

<Link
  href="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/5-app-name-grant-type.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/5-app-name-grant-type.png"
    alt="App name and grant type"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

In the **Sign-in redirect URIs** field, enter the redirect URIs shown in the
setup form in your Firezone admin portal.

In the **Sign-out redirect URIs** field, enter `https://app.firezone.dev`.

<Link href="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/6-redirect-uris.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/6-redirect-uris.png"
    alt="Redirect URIs"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

In the **Assignments** tab, assign the app to the groups you want to have access

> to Firezone.

Reviewer: Was thinking we probably want to put a note underneath this saying something like:
```
"Please note, the user setting up this connector must have access to the Okta application
being created.  If you choose to "skip group assignment for now", please make sure your 
user is assigned to this Okta app before finishing the setup in Firezone..."
```

    alt="Grant users read scope"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

<Link href="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/13-verify-scopes.png" target="_blank">
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/13-verify-scopes.png"
    alt="Verify scopes"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

### Step 5: Complete the Okta provider setup in Firezone

Go back to the **General** tab in the app integration settings in Okta and copy
your **Okta account domain** shown in the top-right corner.

Enter this value into the setup form in your Firezone admin portal.

<Link
  href="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/14-find-okta-account-domain.png"
  target="_blank"
>
  <Image
    src="/images/kb/authenticate/okta/14-find-okta-account-domain.png"
    alt="Find Okta account domain"
    width={1200}
    height={1200}
  />
</Link>

Ensure all fields are filled out, and click **Connect Identity Provider**.

If you get successfully redirected back to your Firezone admin dashboard, you're
done! Your Okta provider is now successfully configured. Users in your
organization can now authenticate to Firezone using this provider and user /

> group sync will occur every few minutes.

Reviewer: Same comment here as in the MS Entra ID page, just letting people know that users can login after the first directory sync.
